# PortfolioCS340

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
Writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is vital to anyone working with computers. For the project two that is uploaded here and the animalShelter.zip file, the code started out simple before being added to and changed. A way to make it readable includes adding comments within the code and making sure naming conventions are consistent. The program is maintainable for similar reasons of being able to see where things might need to be updated and following the logic for use elsewhere. The program is also adaptable in that it started out as a PyMongo file to read, write, update, and delete documents from a Mongo database. This was also adapted into creating a dashboard and widgets for reading the database information as a table. The use of the PyMongo file was essential to making this work. It is also easy to replicate for other Mongo databases that need a Python CRUD module.  

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? 
My first step in approaching a problem as a computer scientist is to figure out what the problem is. Getting all of the requirements or identifying what problem is happening affects the entire project. After getting a good grasp on what the problem is and what the program is supposed to look like, it involves incrementally fixing pieces of the problem. For example, the PyMongo module had to be effective and useable before the dashboard could be created and manipulated. The dashboard also had to be tested to ensure that it wouldn't break anything in the PyMongo module. If it did, fixes needed to be made which led to more efficient structuring of the PyMongo file. This incremental programming allows for frequent testing and isolating issues that might arrise so they can be fixed. This is the strategy I take with almost all of my software development. 

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter?
Computer Scientists take data and information and make it easier to view and use. A file cabinent that has hundreds of documents on different animals can get a similar job done, however you have to look through each of the files one by one to find things you need. Taking that data, as a computer scientist, and creating programs to allow for ease of access and faster results on it makes it easier for anyone to use the data who needs it. It essentially helps make it more accessible. This specific project takes data from animals in animal shelters and allows a user to sort through the animals quickly to find which ones might be best suited for rescue work. As disasters and rescues happen all the time, being able to identify what animals and where match the criteria is vital for that field of work. This program makes it so that information can be accessed quickly and efficiently. 
